---
title: "Run Drupal Tests with the run-tests.sh Script"
url: "https://drupalize.me/tutorial/run-drupal-tests-run-testssh-script?p=3263"
guide: "[[test-drupal-sites-automated-tests]]"
order: 11
---

# Run Drupal Tests with the run-tests.sh Script

## Content

## This page is archived

We're keeping this page up as a courtesy to folks who may need to refer to old instructions. We don't plan to update this page.

Drupal core comes with a *run-tests.sh* script to help with running tests. This script has some distinct advantages over running tests directly via PHPUnit. It runs all tests in their own separate process, and can therefore handle PHP fatal errors without killing the test run. It's also the mechanism that the Drupal CI tools use to run tests; so, it can be handy when debugging tests that are failing on Drupal.org.

In this tutorial we'll:

- Look at the available options for the core *run-tests.sh* script
- Go through some examples of running tests using *run-tests.sh*

By the end of this tutorial you'll know how to run your tests using *run-test.sh*.

## Goal

Run tests using Drupal's native *run-tests.sh* test runner.

## Prerequisites

- A [local Drupal development site](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/install-drupal-locally-ddev). This should *not* be a production site. If you have a development site, that's a good place to practice. It's a bad idea to practice running tests on a production site. **You don't need to fully install Drupal**, but you do need the codebase and an environment to run PHP, SQLite, and mysql-compatible databases.
- Command-line access.
- [Development dependencies installed with Composer](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/install-drupal-development-requirements-composer).
- Optional: [Contributed Simpletest module installed (8.x-3.x dev branch)](https://www.drupal.org/project/simpletest)

## Contents

- [Overview: The *run-tests.sh* script](#overview)
- [Run *run-tests.sh* without any arguments](#no-args)
- [Running tests in a Docker environment](#run-tests-docker)
- [Missing dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Run one test class with `--class`](#arg-class)
- [Specify a base URL with `--url`](#arg-url)
- [Run tests for a group](#arg-group)
- [Speed up execution with `--concurrency`](#arg-concurrency)
- [Use `--verbose` output](#arg-verbose)
- [Accessing HTML generated by a test](#browser-output)
- [Run tests in a module or directory](#which-tests)
- [Run different test types with `--types`](#test-types)
- [Run functional JavaScript tests](#functional-js)
- [Generate reports with `--xml`](#xml-reports)
- [Run a test without installing Drupal with `--sqlite`](#sqlite)
- [Running DrupalCI tests for a contributed module](#drupalci-tests)

## Overview: The *run-tests.sh* script

Even though [Simpletest has been moved to a contributed module](https://www.drupal.org/node/3112907) and you should be [converting your Simpletests to PHPUnit](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/convert-tests-simpletest-phpunit), for whatever reason, you may need to use this test runner.

Drupal core provides a tool for running tests via the script located at *core/scripts/run-tests.sh*.

This is the script that the [Drupal.org Testbot](https://www.drupal.org/project/drupalci_testbot) uses to run tests in the issue queue. If you're writing tests for core or contributed module work, you should make sure that your test is discovered by this script and that it passes as expected.

Despite its file extension, *run-tests.sh* is actually a PHP script, so you have to run it with PHP.

The script, *run-tests.sh*, does a few things really well:

- First, it runs all tests in separate processes. This is so that tests are isolated from each other.
- It handles fatal errors. If you use the PHPUnit test runner and any test crashes, the whole test run is over. Since *run-tests.sh* isolates every test, it can handle crashes for individual tests.
- *run-tests.sh* is the only way to run older deprecated Simpletest-based tests from the command line.

Some drawbacks:

- It's not very flexible when it comes to generating reports.
- It's picky about the order of options on the command line.

## Run *run-tests.sh* without any arguments

First, let's run the script without any arguments and make sure we see the proper output. We have to tell the shell to use PHP or it will try to run the script as a shell script:

```
cd root/of/drupal
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh

Run Drupal tests from the shell.

Usage:        run-tests.sh [OPTIONS] <tests>
Example:      run-tests.sh Profile

All arguments are long options.

  --help      Print this page.

  --list      Display all available test groups.

...
```

You can add `--help` to get the help screen again. Here's a few more issues you might run into before you can continue.

## Running tests in a Docker environment

If you're using a Docker-based [development environment](https://drupalize.me/topic/development-environments) like DDEV, you'll probably want to `ssh` into your container and navigate to the directory where the *core/* directory lives (e.g. *web*) to run these commands. For example, with DDEV:

```
ddev ssh
cd web
```

## Missing dependencies

*run-tests.sh* might present you with some error messages about needing PHPUnit or Simpletest. If it does, you should make sure that you've [installed the development requirements with Composer](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/install-drupal-development-requirements-composer).

If you do not have the contributed Simpletest module, you can use the `--sqlite` option. In fact, that is what we will be doing in this tutorial. Most command examples will include `--sqlite` and sometimes `--dburl` options.

In addition, it's possible run the *run-tests.sh* script **without Drupal installed**. Skip down to the section, [Run a test without installing Drupal with `--sqlite`](#sqlite) to read more about the `--sqlite` and `--dburl` options.

## Run one test class with `--class`

Now that we have a working *run-tests.sh* script, let's run one test: `Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest`.

We can tell *run-tests.sh* to run a particular class name, using the `--class` option. Since we're putting backslashes on the command line, we have to add "tick" marks around the class name. We're also using the `--sqlite` option because we don't have the optional Simpletest contributed module installed in these command examples. ([More on the `--sqlite` option later](#sqlite).)

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite --class 'Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest'
```

Here is the output:

```
Drupal test run
---------------

Tests to be run:
  - Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest

Test run started:
  Thursday, April 7, 2022 - 19:49

Test summary
------------

Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest                  3 passes                                      

Test run duration: 31 sec
```

Remember we said it might fail? Depending on how your system is configured, that might look like this:

```
Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest                  0 passes             1 exceptions
FATAL Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest: test runner returned a non-zero error code (2).
Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest                  0 passes   1 fails
```

If your test did fail, then you need to specify a base URL with `--url`. Luckily, that's the next step:

## Specify a base URL with `--url`

The test we just ran is a functional test. That means it needs to perform HTTP requests to the server.

In order to do this, the test runner needs a base URL. The value depends on your [development environment](https://drupalize.me/topic/development-environments). We'll use `localhost` as a value. We have to tell *run-tests.sh* about this, so that the requests are made to the appropriate address.

We do this with the `--url` option. Here's the same command from above with `--url` added:

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite --url https://localhost --class 'Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest'
```

It's generally best practice to be in the habit of adding the `--url` option, whether you think you'll need it or not.

## Run tests for a group

We just ran the `Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest` test class. It belongs to the Batch group.

How do you define groups? Each test has at least one [`@group`](https://git.drupalcode.org/project/drupal/-/blob/9.3.x/core/modules/system/tests/src/Functional/Batch/PageTest.php#L10) tag. The first `@group` should be the module's machine name if it's a module test. It could also be a related topical namespace, such as `@group Views` for tests of views integrations.

How would we go about running all the tests for the *Batch* group? The group is the argument to the command, so we don't need any special option, just the group name. Like this:

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite --url https://localhost Batch

Drupal test run
---------------

Tests to be run:
  - Drupal\KernelTests\Core\Batch\BatchKernelTest
  - Drupal\Tests\Core\Batch\PercentagesTest
  - Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest
  - Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\ProcessingTest

Test run started:
  Thursday, April 7, 2022 - 22:59

Test summary
------------

Drupal\KernelTests\Core\Batch\BatchKernelTest                  1 passes                                      
Drupal\Tests\Core\Batch\PercentagesTest                       18 passes                                      
Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest                  3 passes                                      
Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\ProcessingTest            8 passes                                      

Test run duration: 2 min 53 sec
```

We see 4 different tests are annotated with `@group Batch`.

## Speed up execution with `--concurrency`

In the previous step, we ran all the tests for the *Batch* group. It took several minutes, as you can see in its output:

```
Test run duration: 2 min 53 sec
```

Wouldn't it be nice to speed things up?

Well we can, with `--concurrency`. This option tells *run-tests.sh* to run a number of tests simultaneously, which can speed up overall execution.

You have to tell it a number, such as `--concurrency 2` or `--concurrency 31`. The number tells *run-tests.sh* how many tests to have running at the same time. The default value if you don't specify a concurrency value is 1.

The optimal number for your needs could depend on quite a few different factors. It's safe to say that you can run as many concurrent tests as cores in your computer, but experimentation might yield different results.

There is one important caveat: `PHPUnit-FunctionalJavascript` tests can't be run concurrently. They should always have `--concurrency 1`. We'll learn more about functional JavaScript tests in a later section.

In the case of the *Batch* group, we only have 4 tests, so we could say `--concurrency 4`.

For now let's just arbitrarily say `--concurrency 5` and stick with that number for the rest of the tutorial:

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite --url http://localhost --concurrency 5 Batch

Drupal test run
---------------

Tests to be run:
  - Drupal\KernelTests\Core\Batch\BatchKernelTest
  - Drupal\Tests\Core\Batch\PercentagesTest
  - Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest
  - Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\ProcessingTest

Test run started:
  Thursday, April 7, 2022 - 23:37

Test summary
------------

Drupal\Tests\Core\Batch\PercentagesTest                       18 passes                                      
Drupal\KernelTests\Core\Batch\BatchKernelTest                  1 passes                                      
Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest                  3 passes                                      
Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\ProcessingTest            8 passes                                      

Test run duration: 2 min 41 sec
```

On my machine, I knocked off 12 seconds. I tried `--concurrency 50` and knocked of 30 seconds, and got the fans on my machine going pretty good. Try more or fewer concurrent tests and see what happens on your machine. This effect is amplified by the number of processors available and the number of tests you're running.

## Use `--verbose` output

In all the test runs up to now, the list of test results is not very informative. It only tells you whether the test passed or failed, without any explanation.

There are two ways to get more detailed information. One is to use the `--xml` option to get machine-readable results. But let's explore the human-readable option: `--verbose`. We'll talk about `--xml` in a later step.

The `--verbose` option opens a test result report in the CLI. It's the most useful if you also pass `--non-html` which removes all of the escape characters and makes it easier to read in the CLI.

Let's run the *Batch* group with the `--verbose` and `--non-html` options added to the command:

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite --url http://localhost --concurrency 5 --verbose --non-html Batch
```

We see the output in the console as before, but now with much more detail.

```
Detailed test results
---------------------

---- Drupal\KernelTests\Core\Batch\BatchKernelTest ----

Status    Group      Filename          Line Function                            
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pass      Other      BatchKernelTest.p   26 Drupal\KernelTests\Core\Batch\Batch
...
```

## Accessing HTML generated by a test

[Removed in Drupal 9, the `--browser` option](https://www.drupal.org/node/3083549) opened a browser window with the HTML output from a test, similar to what you used to see in a Simpletest UI page. If you were using this option to access the HTML generated during a test you can enable the `\Drupal\Tests\Listeners\HtmlOutputPrinter` in your *phpunit.xml* file. See *core/phpunit.xml.dist* (in your Drupal codebase) for more information and the tutorial [Create a PHPUnit Config File for Your Project](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/create-phpunit-config-file-your-project).

You can also open the HTML files generated by test runs in your project's *web/sites/simpletest/browser\_output* directory.

## Run tests in a module or directory

We can also use `--module`, `--directory`, and `--all`, to specify a set of tests to run.

We saw that we can specify a single test class to run with the `--class` option. We also saw that we can specify a group on the command line with `--group`, like we did with `Batch`.

But what if you want to run all the tests in a module? We learned above that `--group [module-name]` should run all the tests, but module group annotations are a coding standard for Drupal core. It might be that your module does not have `@group` annotations like that.

In that case, you could specify `--module` and the module machine name. If you know where the module is located, you could also run its test by specifying its directory with `--directory`.

Here's a command for running the *testing\_example* module's tests.

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite --url http://localhost --module testing_example
```

Since we know where this module resides in the file system, we can also use `--directory` to run the same set of tests:

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite --url http://localhost --directory modules/contrib/examples/modules/testing_example
```

You'd choose to use `--module` or `--directory` based on your own needs. A continuous integration system might, for instance, use `--directory` in order to discover test files that are outside of the places where *run-tests.sh* would find them for a module. Or, a continuous integration system might require that tests be in normal contrib locations, and use `--module`.

We can also use `--all` to specify running all the discoverable tests.

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite --url http://localhost --concurrency 5 --verbose --all
```

As you can imagine, this takes quite a long time. You can press `Ctrl-C` to halt execution.

**Note**: You'll notice many of these tests fail or produce errors. You might want to check out this blog post on [Debug any of Drupal's PHPUnit tests in PhpStorm with a DDEV Environment](https://drupalize.me/blog/debug-any-drupals-phpunit-tests-phpstorm-ddev-environment) (Drupalize.Me). (In this tutorial, we're sticking to running tests only.)

## Run different test types with `--types`

Drupal has a number of different testing frameworks. When we talk about them in the context of *phpunit*, we talk about test suites. But in *run-tests.sh*, we refer to them as types.

The 5 types of tests that *run-tests.sh* can run are:

- `PHPUnit-Unit`
- `PHPUnit-Kernel`
- `PHPUnit-Functional`
- `PHPUnit-FunctionalJavascript`
- `Simpletest`

The names of these types tell you what tool is used to run them. *run-tests.sh* will make a call to *phpunit* in order to run the various `PHPUnit-*` test types.

Each of these types have different requirements. For instance, `PHPUnit-Functional` and `Simpletest`-based tests need a web server. `PHPUnit-FunctionalJavascript` needs an instance of selenium-server and can't be run concurrently (see the next step).

Depending on what dependencies are available, you might want to run only certain kinds of tests.

Let's run only unit tests for the *Batch* group. Those would be of type `PHPUnit-Unit`. We do this with the `--types` option.

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite --url http://localhost --concurrency 5 --types PHPUnit-Unit Batch

Drupal test run
---------------

Tests to be run:
  - Drupal\Tests\Core\Batch\PercentagesTest

Test run started:
  Friday, April 8, 2022 - 16:35

Test summary
------------

Drupal\Tests\Core\Batch\PercentagesTest                       18 passes                                      

Test run duration: 8 sec
```

As you can see, there was only one unit test in the *Batch* group.

Now let's add functional tests. Those would be of type `PHPUnit-Functional`.

We make a list of the types we want to run, separated by a comma, like this:

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite --url http://localhost --concurrency 5 --types PHPUnit-Unit,PHPUnit-Functional Batch

Drupal test run
---------------

Tests to be run:
  - Drupal\Tests\Core\Batch\PercentagesTest
  - Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest
  - Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\ProcessingTest

[ ...etc... ]
```

Tests of the type `PHPUnit-FunctionalJavascript` get their own special step.

## Run functional JavaScript tests

In order to run functional JavaScript tests, you need to know two things:

- They need selenium-server and a browser-driver, such as ChromeDriver, to run WebDriver-based tests.
- They can't run concurrently.
- [Selenium WebDriver](https://www.selenium.dev/documentation/webdriver/) is a piece of software that implements the WebDriver API and provides a "virtual" web browser, with an implementation of JavaScript. This software receives the output of HTTP requests and then executes the JavaScript, making use of WebDriver API. The testing framework can then examine the results of running JavaScript and make test assertions against it. [ChromeDriver](https://chromedriver.chromium.org/home) runs the WebDriver/Selenium-based tests and "drives" the Chrome browser.
- We have a [tutorial on how to set up and run WebDriver-based tests](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/run-functional-javascript-tests), which you'll need to do if you want to run functional JavaScript tests in this step.
- See also [Debug any of Drupal's PHPUnit tests in PhpStorm with a DDEV Environment](https://drupalize.me/blog/debug-any-drupals-phpunit-tests-phpstorm-ddev-environment) (Drupalize.Me) which includes instructions on adding a ChromeDriver service to a DDEV environment.
- When selenium-server and ChromeDriver (or other browser driver) is installed, it is only one instance of this virtual web browser. We can't run multiple tests under the same instance. So that means we can't run functional JavaScript tests concurrently.
- So when you run functional JavaScript tests from *run-tests.sh*, you have to specify a concurrency of 1, and have the selenium-server software running in the background. Something like this:

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --verbose --non-html --url --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite http://drupal.ddev.site --concurrency 1 --types PHPUnit-FunctionalJavascript Ajax

Test run duration: 1 min 48 sec
```

If your testing process needs to use functional JavaScript tests, you'll be best off calling *run-tests.sh* twice, once with a higher concurrency for non-JavaScript tests, and then once with a concurrency of 1 for the functional JavaScript tests. This is what the DrupalCI testbot does, in fact.

## Generate reports with `--xml`

*run-tests.sh* stores results in a database. When each test finishes, *run-tests.sh* puts the results in a database which can then later be assembled into a report.

*run-tests.sh* only has one report style other than the results database: XML. It's similar to JUnit but is not identical.

Use the `--xml` option to specify a directory. *run-tests.sh* will then place test results in that directory.

Notice that you are asked to specify a directory, not a file. The XML reports that are generated from *run-tests.sh* are probably not a great user-friendly way to get information about the tests you ran.

```
mkdir reports
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --verbose --url http://localhost:8888/ --concurrency 5 --xml reports Batch

Drupal test run
---------------

Tests to be run:
  - Drupal\Tests\Core\Batch\PercentagesTest
  - Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest
  - Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\ProcessingTest

Test run started:
  Wednesday, September 13, 2017 - 01:26

Test summary
------------

Drupal\Tests\Core\Batch\PercentagesTest                       18 passes
Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\PageTest                  3 passes
Drupal\Tests\system\Functional\Batch\ProcessingTest            8 passes

Test run duration: 4 min 3 sec

ls reports/
Drupal_Tests_Core_Batch_PercentagesTest.xml
Drupal_Tests_system_Functional_Batch_PageTest.xml
Drupal_Tests_system_Functional_Batch_ProcessingTest.xml
```

The result reports will be placed in the directory, one per test class. These will use JUnit's `<testsuite>` and `<testclass>` tags, but in a somewhat non-standard way.

Any system built around this report style will have to merge these different files into one. Because the output is difficult to work with, the XML reporting functionality isn't a very popular method of output from *run-tests.sh*. The Testbot does not use this format. The DrupalCI Testbot tells *run-tests.sh* to keep the test results in the database, then generates a report on its own by querying the database. This is really the best option for any homebrew CI system based on *run-tests.sh*.

Note that there is an issue to [add JUnit output to core](https://www.drupal.org/node/2834033).

## Use `--sqlite` to run functional tests

As we have been practicing, now that Simpletest has been removed from Drupal core, it's best practice to use the `--sqlite` argument to run functional tests.

[SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/) is a lightweight SQL database. When you specify a SQLite database to *run-tests.sh*, it only has to be a file name. SQLite will create the file and then *run-tests.sh* will write test results to it. The only other requirement is that the **web server needs to be able to write files to the file path you specify**.

This option's original purpose was to accommodate the DrupalCI testbot. Since it exists for the testbot, anyone else that runs tests with `run-tests.sh` can do the same.

*run-tests.sh* will eventually run all the tests and then tell you some results based on what's in the SQLite database file.

**Note:** This is the only way you can specify a results database different from the site under test: It has to be a SQLite file.

You may wonder, if I can run tests without mysql, then do I need Drupal installed at all to run tests? The answer is:

- You can run tests without fully installing Drupal.
- You will need to use the `--sqlite` option if you don't have the contributed Simpletest module installed.
- Some Drupal tests might still need a mysql database (a blank one will do, with an appropriately-privileged user), in which case you'd also pass the `--dburl` option.
- Some Drupal tests that need a `--dburl` option may be able to use a sqlite database instead of mysql.

## Run a test without installing Drupal with `--sqlite`

Let's try it with **mysql** as the db:

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --url http://localhost --sqlite /tmp/test.sqlite --dburl mysql://username:password@localhost/database --concurrency 5 --types PHPUnit-Unit,PHPUnit-Functional Batch
```

With **sqlite** as the db:

```
php ./core/scripts/run-tests.sh --url http://localhost --sqlite test_results.sqlite --dburl sqlite://localhost//tmp/test.sqlite --concurrency 5 --types PHPUnit-Unit,PHPUnit-Functional Batch
```

### Resulting SQLite file

This command (using `--sqlite`) will result in the same output as our other *Batch* group runs, but will leave behind a SQLite file named */tmp/test.sqlite*:

```
ls /tmp/*.sqlite
test.sqlite
```

If your CI process needs to use *run-tests.sh* you can access this database and use it to generate whatever results format you need.

## Running DrupalCI tests for a contributed module

If you're maintaining a module on Drupal.org, you might want to use *run-tests.sh* to run or troubleshoot DrupalCI test runs. If you're running tests against the latest version of Drupal, [Simpletest module moved to a contributed module](https://www.drupal.org/node/3112907). But, you can still successfully run simpletests in your project by adding a *drupalci.yml* file to your project and a command to download Simpletest.

### Add the drupalci.yml file to your project root

1. [Download the drupalci.yml file](https://www.drupal.org/files/drupalci.yml_.txt) and save it to your project root.
2. Rename the file to *drupalci.yml*

Command-line shortcut:

```
curl https://www.drupal.org/files/drupalci.yml_.txt > drupalci.yml
```

### Add a command to install Simpletest module

Edit your project's *drupalci.yml* file and add a `container_command`:

```
container_command:
  commands:
    - 'sudo -u www-data /usr/local/bin/composer require drupal/simpletest-simpletest dev-3.x --prefer-source --prefer-stable --no-interaction --working-dir /var/www/html'
```

This will install Simpletest module for the test runs on your project.

### Commit and push to drupal.org

Add, commit, and push *drupalci.yml* to your project repo.

That's it!

## Recap

In this tutorial, we've covered the basics of running tests with Drupal's native *run-tests.sh* test runner. The *run-tests.sh* script gives us a good way to automate test runs. In fact this is the format that Drupal's Testbot uses in the issue queues on Drupal.org to test core and contributed code.

## Further your understanding

Since Simpletest has been removed from Drupal, it's a good idea to [convert your Simpletests to PHPUnit](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/convert-tests-simpletest-phpunit).

## Additional resources

- Change record: [Simpletest moved to a contributed module](https://www.drupal.org/node/3112907) (Drupal.org)
- Change record: [The --browser option in run-tests.sh is deprecated](https://www.drupal.org/node/3083549) (Drupal.org)
- [Install Drupal Development Requirements with Composer](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/install-drupal-development-requirements-composer) (Drupalize.Me)
- [Create a PHPUnit Config File for Your Project](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/create-phpunit-config-file-your-project)
- [Functional JavaScript Testing](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/run-functional-javascript-tests) (Drupalize.Me)
- [Set up a Functional Test](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/set-functional-test) (Drupalize.Me)
- [Debug any of Drupal's PHPUnit tests in PhpStorm with a DDEV Environment](https://drupalize.me/blog/debug-any-drupals-phpunit-tests-phpstorm-ddev-environment) (Drupalize.Me)
- [Run Drupal Tests with PHPUnit](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/run-drupal-tests-phpunit) (Drupalize.Me)
- [Frameworks for Testing in Drupal](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/frameworks-testing-drupal)
- [Support multiple @groups per test class](https://www.drupal.org/node/2296615) (Drupal.org)
- [Adding JUnit output to core](https://www.drupal.org/node/2834033) (Drupal.org)

Was this helpful?

Yes

No

Any additional feedback?

Previous
[Functional JavaScript Testing with Nightwatch.js](/tutorial/functional-javascript-testing-nightwatchjs?p=3263)

Clear History

Ask Drupalize.Me AI

close