---
title: "Set Up Your Development Environmentfree"
url: "https://drupalize.me/tutorial/set-your-development-environment?p=3234"
guide: "[[drupal-module-developer-guide]]"
---

# Set Up Your Development Environmentfree

## Content

To follow along with the examples in this guide you'll need to have a copy of the Anytown Farmer's Market site that resembles what you would have if you went through all the chapters in the [Drupal User Guide](https://drupalize.me/guide/drupal-user-guide). If you did not follow along with the Drupal User Guide example, or if you need a fresh start, this tutorial will walk you through setting up a copy of the site based on a backup. This guide follows a project-based learning approach, and this setup is essential for ensuring that you can effectively follow along with the subsequent tutorials.

In this tutorial, we'll:

- Locate the codebase, backup database, and backup public files directory, required to restore a copy of the Anytown Farmer's Market site.
- Walk through setting up the site in DDEV using the provided backup.

By the end of this tutorial, you should have a working copy of the Anytown Farmer's Market site on your local development environment.

## Goal

Set up your local development environment with a copy of the Anytown Farmer's Market site in order to follow along with the examples in the rest of this guide.

## Prerequisites

- [Guiding Scenario](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/guiding-scenario)
- [Concept: Drupal Development Environment](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/concept-drupal-development-environment)

The files provided here can be used with any Drupal-compatible development environment. We'll provide instructions for using DDEV. If you're not using DDEV, modify the instructions by replacing or removing `ddev` commands with ones appropriate for your local environment.

## Video tutorial

Sprout Video

## Anytown Farmer's Market site backup files

The files for the Anytown Farmer's Market site can be found on GitHub at [DrupalizeMe/module-developer-guide-demo-site](https://github.com/DrupalizeMe/module-developer-guide-demo-site).

The Git repository contains everything needed to create a copy of the site:

- A Composer-based Drupal project based on the standard `drupal/core-recommended` install. Must be initialized with `composer install`.
- *backups/d10.start-here.sql.gz*: An SQL dump of the Anytown Farmer's Market site that corresponds to the state of the site if you had completed all chapters of the Drupal User Guide.
- *backups/public\_files.tar.gz*: The content of the *sites/default/files* directory for the Anytown Farmer's market site if you had completed all chapters of the Drupal User Guide.

## Set up a local environment using DDEV

When you are ready to set up a local environment on your machine, follow these steps.

### Install DDEV

Install DDEV if it's not already installed. To install DDEV, see the [DDEV installation documentation](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/users/install/).

### Clone the Git repository

Clone the Git repository for the Anytown Farmer's Market site. In the directory where you want the cloned repository to live run the following command:

```
git clone https://github.com/DrupalizeMe/module-developer-guide-demo-site.git
```

Change directories into the project directory.

```
cd module-developer-guide-demo-site
```

### Launch DDEV and install required dependencies

Start DDEV from project's top-level directory. You'll use the configuration provided in the project's *.ddev/* directory. With DDEV running, you can use Composer to install Drupal core and dependencies:

```
ddev start
ddev composer install
```

### Restore the database and files

Use the provided database and public files backups to overwrite the empty Drupal site with a copy of the Anytown Farmer's Market site:

```
ddev import-db --file=backups/d11.start-here.sql.gz
ddev import-files --source=backups/public_files.tar.gz
ddev drush updatedb -y
ddev drush cache:rebuild
```

### Login and change the user 1 password

Sign in to the admin account by using a one-time login link generated by Drush and then change the password:

```
ddev drush user:login
```

This will output a link you can follow to log in to the site as the admin user.

You should now have a working copy of the Anytown Farmer's Market site. Take a moment to familiarize yourself with the site's architecture including content types, fields, and other settings.

## Recap

In this tutorial, we created a copy of the Anytown Farmer's Market site using DDEV as the local development environment. This will serve as a safe place to experiment with code while learning how to author custom Drupal modules.

## Further your understanding

- What content types and fields exist in the Anytown Farmer's Market site? How do you think they are used?
- Can you explain how the Anytown Farmer's Market site will be used in this guide? And why?

## Additional resources

- [DDEV](https://ddev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) (ddev.readthedocs.io)
- [Install Drupal Locally with DDEV](https://drupalize.me/tutorial/install-drupal-locally-ddev) (Drupalize.Me)

Was this helpful?

Yes

No

Any additional feedback?

Previous
[Concept: Tools for Module Developers](/tutorial/concept-tools-module-developers?p=3234)

Next
[Install Drush](/tutorial/install-drush?p=3234)

Clear History

Ask Drupalize.Me AI

close